The Password Generator is my first JavaScript application.  It generates a random password based upon user-selected criteria.  The application runs in the browser and features dynamically updated HTML.  The interface is user-friendly and is responsive, adapting to multiple screen sizes.

I utilized alert(), prompt(), and confirm() to provide instructions to and get information from the user to ensure successful use of the application.  Upon initializing the applicatoin by clicking the Generate Password button, an alert message instructs the user regarding the OK and Cancel buttons on the popup pages.  The the user is asked a series of questions regarding the type of characters to be included in their password and the length.  The options are lowercase letters, uppercase letters, numbers, special characters and a length between 8 - 128 characters.  The user must include at least one type of character for the application to run.  Because multi-character passwords are more secure, and because it is possible for a password to be generated without special characters although the user selected the criteria, the code includes "required characters", which are special characters included in all randomized passwords. Once all criteria is gathered, a randomized password is generated that meets the user-selected parameters.

The Password Generator could be improved by adding a clipboard or features to help users manage a list of websites and corresponding usernames and passwords.  This would be especially helpful to users as it is recommended to update passwords periodically.

